*1.1 Background*
================

The National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) has set as one of its
objectives the revitalization of the economic sector of Tourism. Tourism
in Italy, in fact, represents an important source of competitive
advantage for the entire country, with 13% of GDP in 2017 (Bank of
Italy) and counting over 500 thousand supply chain enterprises in 2019
with over 1.9 million employees (ISTAT). Tourism-related consumption in
2018 was around â‚¬84 billion (ISNART). ISTAT data reported, before the
epidemic, arrivals - national and international - of around 131 million
and presences of around 436 million (ISTAT).

Concerning Measure 4. "Tourism 4.0", Investment 4.1 - "Tourism Digital
Hub" (TDH) is aimed at creating a dedicated web platform, which allows
the connection of the entire tourism ecosystem to enhance, integrate and
promote its offer.

The expected outcomes of TDH are:

-  Increasing flows, destinations and spending, by increasing the
   quality of the offer and the related exposure of the Italian Points
   of Interest for Tourism (POI);

-  Enhancing the existing framework of digital assets - e.g., regional
   portals - without any overlapping, while also offering cost saving
   solutions;

-  Strengthening the role of TDH's digital assets, defining them as real
   institutional reference points for searching for POI-related
   information with respect to an audience of national and international
   tourists;

-  Involving the entire Italian tourism system through an open-source
   approach that collects input and generates output for all
   stakeholders;

-  Retaining users (and therefore potential tourists) through tailored
   proposals based on their needs and preferences, offering a bespoke
   portal experience;

-  Favoring the development of a platform that provides timely and
   correct information on POIs across Italy, and whose data will be used
   by external tracking platforms such as Google My Business, Bing
   Places, Apple Maps and so on - thus bringing an additional benefit in
   terms of visibility on the most common search engines.

The Ministry of Tourism, assisted by ENIT - the National Agency for
Tourism, is in charge of coordinating the entire Italian tourism
ecosystem, promoting, in a joint approach, the re-launch of tourism
through a comprehensive and mixed offer of information and services,
facing the continuous changes in national and international market
demand.

The purpose of the TDH initiative is the re-launch of Italia.it,
enriched with new internally produced content and in partnership with
Regions and Autonomous Provinces, but also through integrations with
partners in Tourism. In detail, for each topic discussed, the website
will offer content with a triple relevance:

-  **Content of Interest**: **editorial content, which enables the TDH
   to infer the Person's interest when reading it.** It enables the
   description of one or more destinations, one or more offers and/or
   any type of event related to the tourist experience in our territory
   (e.g.: an editorial article that talks about the Palio of Siena, if
   read by the tourist, suggests interest for Siena and its historical
   pageants);

-  **Destination**: **local attraction related to a point of interest**
   (x, y coordinates) **or to a geographical area** ("geometry") **that
   persists in the medium-long term** (e.g., Colosseum, Trevi Fountain,
   the city of Rome, etc.);

-  **Offer**: a touristic item that **can be consumed/booked/seen for a
   fee** (e.g., a hotel room, a museum entry).

TDH also aims at making the tourist market demand towards Italy
profitably meeting the related Italian offer (provided by different
actors), by connecting the individual's (tourist) interests,
destinations and offer before, during and after the tourism experience,
creating value for all stakeholders involved.

Within the TDH, the design and implementation of an Integration Platform
- Full Life Cycle API Manager is foreseen to support interoperability
between applications and services both external and internal to the TDH:

-  external services: second-party data (e.g., regions), third-party
   data (e.g., private and public organizations complementary to the
   national government system), geographical data;

-  internal services: integration with internal TDH applications that
   are related to specific modules (e.g., CRM).

To achieve its goal of involving the whole Italian tourism system, the
Integration Platform and API Manager ensures the IT and information
coordination of data between Administrations (central, regional and
local), Organizations and Third-Party Companies with the TDH Digital
Ecosystem. A standard communication protocol between the TDH and the
external world, defined TDH022, has also been adopted.

Accordingly, the TDH022 acts as a Digital Standard at National level, in
charge of exchanging both "open" (open data) and "closed" (private data)
data and contents among the participants, also being the integration
interface between the TDH and the Industry Professionals interested in
joining the Ecosystem and operating in the Italian domestic area.

*Figure 1 - TDH ecosystem and external connection through TDH022* shows
the Tourism Digital Hub and interconnection strategy.

|image0|

*Figure 1 - TDH ecosystem and external connection through TDH022*

The interaction procedures with TDH Ecosystem allow both the use of
digital services available in it and the development/supply of new ones
(open or closed) making them available to Ecosystem members. In this
sense, the interactions contemplate that the operators (public and
private) adhering to the TDH022 can operate, depending on the case, as
follows

-  *service provider*, in case they provide any services and
   functionalities to TDH;

-  *service users,* if they use digital services provided by third
   parties within the Ecosystem.

.. |image0| image:: ./media/image4.png
   :width: 5.42652in
   :height: 2.51667in
