*1.2 Purpose of the document*
=============================

This document acts as a framework for the Interoperability the Ministry
of Tourism plans to adopt with Institutional and Private Stakeholders,
for the exchange of information, data and services with the TDH.

This document provides the Guidelines which are further detailed in the
related Operative Documents.

These Guidelines define standards and technologies that Public
Administrations will have to comply with to make their information
systems interoperable, in order to allow the information and data
exchange between Administrations (central, regional and local), Public
Entities and Third-Party Companies with the TDH Digital Ecosystem,
henceforth "Ecosystem" or "TDH", through the TDH022.

Guidelines in this document guarantee consistency with:

-  technological evolution;

-  compliance with the European Interoperability Framework (EIF)
   guidelines;

-  adequacy to the information/technical needs of administrations and
   their users;

-  adoption by the Public Authorities and Private Partners concerned;

-  uniform ontologies and taxonomies for content classification and
   organization;

-  adequacy to the necessary security levels.

This document will be constantly updated by the Ministry of Tourism
according to technological and/or regulatory developments that may
arise.

These Guidelines are also compliant with the recommendations issued by
AgID, ref. document *"Guidelines on the technical interoperability of
Public Administrations" [letter b) paragraph 3-bis article 73 of
Legislative Decree no. 82 of 7 March 2005]* helping in defining an
interoperability model between tourism operators, by focusing on
processes, technologies and their methods of use, in order to ensure the
exchange of data and contents with the TDH using the TDH022 standard.
Furthermore, the Interaction Environments within the Ecosystem are
defined.

Lastly, Guidelines address the technical interoperability level and
support the standardization initiatives endorsed by the European
Commission *(ref. Doc. European Interoperability Framework - EIF).*
